hey guys what's up and welcome back to
my channel I am so excited to update you
guys on my personal 12-week fitness
challenge I cannot even believe I'm
already 11 weeks in the time has just
flown by but it has been 11 weeks I'm on
my twelfth and final week I did just
want to update you guys on what's been
going on because the last time I updated
you guys was just on my blog and I know
some of you guys were like looking for
the next video update so without further
ado let's talk about my results over the
last seven weeks okay so we're just
gonna dive into it I'm just gonna jump
into the results overall I think the
most motivating thing for me throughout
this entire challenge is just thinking
about how the time is gonna pass anyways
so you might as well be working on your
goals and doing what makes you feel good
because the time is gonna pass anyway
it's really about like those choices
that you're making over you know
throughout your day really on a micro
scale so far 11 weeks in I've started at
122 point four pounds that was all the
way back in December December 9th and I
am now a hundred and fourteen feet so
I'm down seven point six pounds which is
a lot of weight for me considering I
don't have a didn't have a lot of weight
to lose in the first place I really went
into this looking to sort of just show
more muscle definition get a little bit
leaner it's worked and it's been really
cool to see just how easy it can be
really doesn't have to be that difficult
and once you get into sort of this
rhythm of figuring out what works for
your body and sticking to it
consistently it just becomes your new
routine your new lifestyle and it
doesn't feel as challenging so as far as
other results in in addition to losing
7.6 pounds I also saw a reduction in
body fat I lost about 1 percent body fat
and I saw an increase in my skeletal
muscle mass so overall about point seven
percent increase in skeletal muscles so
I was able to really have a body
recomposition over the last 11 weeks
losing fat and increasing muscle at the
same time which was my goal and I was
totally ideal I'd rather do that then do
strict books and
in terms of my calories so I wrote this
all out on my blog but I am gonna go
into it a little bit here as well for
the first you know and you guys saw back
in my if you saw my other challenge
videos I stated my maintenance calories
for a while and because I have worked so
hard over the last year and few years
speeding up my metabolism increasing my
calories and lifting weights I was
starting off this challenge in a really
good place happy you know eating around
2,000 calories per day when I started
the challenge I actually was able to eat
at my maiden's calories and just
increase the intensity of my workouts
and you know consistently trained five
days a week instead of four and clean up
the contents of my nutrition so focus on
hitting my macros focus on in hitting
you know 120 grams roughly a protein per
day which is my protein goal for myself
and that is one gram of protein per
pound of body weight when I started the
challenge around there I also worked on
really cleaning up my nutrition just
eating less processed foods eating out a
little bit less so I generally eat out
now about once a week and when I kind of
made those changes I was able to start
seeing fat loss pretty quickly and that
kind of just summarizes the last you
know the first six weeks maybe of this
challenge was just literally just
optimizing the lifestyle I already had
it was because it was already pretty
healthy at the time and it just really
came down to okay what can i I'm already
doing a lot well what can I improve on
so I really got I got pretty far into
the challenge without having to cut
calories one sec oh thanks Gary so when
I hit later on in the challenge it was
probably in the last somewhere in the
last four weeks I did decide to actually
officially go into more of a deficit
which is technically a diet I do not
recommend petite women start by dieting
and the reason why if you watch it in my
video any of my videos is because most
of the time petite women we have slower
metabolisms and if we go straight into a
diet without working on our metabolism
you'd be eating like 1,200 calories a
day
and not only will that slow down your
metabolism make you really hungry make
you feel really low energy and not help
you achieve your goals of building
muscle and losing fat but it's also just
not healthy for you overall so once you
raise your metabolism by strength
training and eating more foods then when
you do a diet and the way that I did it
through this challenge you have a lot of
room to cut much like a taller person
has a lot of room to cut so starting at
two thousand calories I could shave off
200 calories and start losing weight
it's 1800 calories rather than 1200 do
you guys see how big of a difference
that is like eating 1,800 calories a day
versus 1200 is huge in terms of how much
I can eat how satiated I feel and for
that reason it's made this challenge
really easy I haven't really felt like
I've been on a diet at any point and
that has been a huge win for me and this
is why I teach petite women to take a
metabolic approach first because if you
work on that metabolic health it's gonna
be so much easier and also enjoyable as
a lifestyle to cut calories and then the
other reason why it's so important to
take this route is because I can live
and maintain these results and you know
fifteen to eight hundred eighteen
fifteen to eighteen I can talk I can
maintain these results at 1500 to 1800
calories per day that's a lot of food to
eat still and keep the results that I've
you know that I have achieved if I were
dieting down to a thousand calories a
day 1200 calories a day and I lost
weight I would have to stay there
forever to keep those results and that
would not be sustainable fun or in any
way a lifestyle that I want to live or
would recommend anyone lives so what's
great is that I can you know stay even
if I've shaved off a couple hundred
calories I'm still eating enough food I
solve enough calories I can eat in a day
for you know to enjoy my lifestyle and
feel good and maintain and keep my
results in the long run as far as my
progress photos I think this is the most
interesting thing because there is a
huge reduction in my body fat around my
thighs my thighs
tend to change in size a lot depending
on you know basically my nutrition if
I'm eating in a surplus if I'm you know
just eating at maintenance and when I
did this challenge I saw a huge
reduction in the circumference of my
thighs and I took measurements and this
is what I got so I have it pulled up
right here on my computer I saw about a
half an inch I lost in my thighs which
is a lot I feel like I lost about a full
inch in my hips and I lost about 3
inches on my waist around my belly
button so overall I saw a lot of body
fat reduction it was interesting to see
it go from my thighs because typically
with my history of being a competitive
fencer and just being quad dominant it's
hard for me to change the kind of look
of my thighs you guys if you've seen my
old video I did a video on losing muscle
and fat and your thighs via body
recomposition that I did that experiment
over a year ago when I retired from
fencing full-time and wanted to see a
more symmetrical development and my you
know in my muscle in my body composition
and so I was just familiar with how my
body kind of reacts to these changes and
I didn't expect it to change at all and
that's totally fine because I love my
quads and I love how muscular you know
my quads are I love how developed and
strong they are and athletic and but
there was surprisingly a pretty
significant visible reduction and you
guys can see in the photos than the
before and after in just 11 weeks it
really shrunk that really surprised me
the other thing that was really awesome
to see was I had a lot of strength goals
I still do and I was able to increase my
strength pretty significantly even
though I entered that caloric deficit
you know some number of weeks in and I
think I'm going to attribute this to the
fact that I never had to get too low in
calories because my metabolism was so
stoked which was pretty cool I brought
my deadlift to about 150 565 pounds and
that's still there's still a lot of room
to grow being at 155 pounds for a
deadlift but previously I was lifting
like 115 I wasn't pushing myself and
my chest press I was able to increase my
bench from like 65 pounds to 105 so
there's still a lot of room for growth
there too but all of my lips have seen a
huge improvement and strength and
typically when you're in a caloric
deficit it can be harder to make those
strength gains but I was still able to
add more weight to the bar every week
you know grab a spotter what I needed
one and see awesome progress so I'm
really proud that I did this experiment
and I was able to kind of keep my
calories high enough so that I could
lose fat clear that I was in a deficit
while also gaining strength in the gym
increasing the load each week and
increasing my lifts so in terms of my
nutrition I did do carb cycling
throughout this entire challenge it's
something that helped me just with
allocating the nutrition throughout this
challenge I also did do carb cycling
which basically just means that I ate
higher a number of carbs on days that I
trained versus days that I rested and
that works really well for me I just
found that padding you know having more
carbs on training days helped fuel my
workouts it's also it probably helped me
make gains in the gym despite being in a
deficit and then on my rest days when I
didn't need as much sugars and I wasn't
as hungry I just didn't have as many
carbs and there's no exact magic number
for this you'll play with it
but it doesn't have to be a huge
difference in carbs for example if
you're eating 200 grams of carbs per day
again this is not what I'm telling you
to do it's gonna vary depending on your
goals and who you are and your height
and all of these things but let's just
say you're eating 200 grams of carbs on
a training day on a rest day you might
have a little bit less 180 grams of
carbs 170 grams carb it can help to
cycle out the carbs based on your
activity level and throughout the
challenge I always ate PFF which stands
for protein healthy fats and fibrous
carbs that's what I teach my clients
that's what works the best to keep your
body and your metabolism in fat-burning
mode I made sure I had protein in every
single meal I made sure it was heisted
high-quality sources of protein so
yogurts and salmon and chicken breast
and Turkey and you know cut as cheese's
I also used a collagen powder vitamin
vital proteins collagen peptides my
favorite one so just making sure I
prioritize protein which also helped
keep me full I got enough healthy fats
in whether that was through the oils I
was cooking with or more high-fiber
options like avocado have you know
peanut butters and you know good sources
of healthy fats and I made sure I had
fibrous carbs a lot of vegetables as
well as starchy carbs you know I had my
higher glycemic index carbs like
granolas and sugary carbs bananas and
I'm really proud of this I managed to
have one treat per day throughout this
entire thing which was either like a
biscotti or a brownie something that I
fit into my macros which just helped
keep me sane and also eating out help
keep me sane you know like once a week
just going out and eating and enjoying a
meal enjoying a cheeseburger something
that you wouldn't normally eat when
you're being more aware of your portion
sizes and quality of your nutrition also
helped keep me on track I didn't do that
every week but when I found myself
feeling like I needed to you know take a
break and just really indulge and enjoy
food I didn't restrict myself from that
I made sure that I kept that balance
that I kept my mind set in a good place
and this is a huge thing that I see you
know women and men do when they start
dieting or they start a fitness or
health challenge they just go for the
extremes they restrict everything and
they end up being so hungry and so
deprived they just cave in and kind of
sabotage their own results so the
biggest takeaway that I think that you
guys could take from this is if you're
setting up a plan for yourself make sure
that you just build in treats and
rewards and you're gonna learn how much
is too much versus how much you can get
away with and it's kind of all about
maximizing what you can get away with
while still getting results for me I was
able to have dessert every day is it
like a plate of desserts no but was it
enough that I felt satiated and happy
and not deprived absolutely so I think
just striking that balance can also be
really really important for you and your
long-term results I would love to hear
from you guys what questions you have
about my journey so far let me know in
the comments below I will answer the
any questions about my nutrition or
health it has been so fun doing this
challenge and I'm not done yet
speaking of which I think I'm going to
extend it for a little while longer just
because I'm really enjoying it and I'm
on such a good role but I do have to
work on kind of reassessing my goals get
some new strength goals figure out when
to just level out my calories and
maintain and hopefully I'll be able to
stay at you know like I said 1,500 to
1,800 calories per day and maintain my
new weight which is the goal and that
would be perfect as a petite woman and
yeah let me know what questions you have
any if it's inspired you to start your
own fitness and health challenge and I
will see you guys next week remember to
give this a like if you learned
something and you enjoyed it and
subscribe for more content Taylor -
petite women and I will see you guys
soon bye
[Music]